Transcript
0:00
Okay.
0:01
So now we're going to put the different pieces in this puzzle together and also add a whole new piece.
0:06
And in order to free up some space in our JavaScript file here, let's just remove this previous exercise and actually write out in pseudocode the procedures that we need to do in order to make this work.
0:17
So first, we know that we need to store the count somewhere, and we know that we wanna initialize it as zero.
0:25
And then as I said in the previous lesson, we need to kind of listen for clicks on this button here.
0:30
When it's clicked, we need to increment our count.
0:34
Then finally, which we aren't going to do just yet, but I just want to write that procedure out as well so that you know what to expect.
0:42
We need to change the count l, this paragraph right here, in the HTML to reflect the new count.
0:51
So we know how to initialize the count as zero, and we know how to increment the count variable.
0:57
So to achieve these first three, we need to do this task, is listening for clicks on the increment button.
1:03
And that can be done in a multitude of ways.
1:05
The easiest one is simply in the HTML defining an on click event listener.
1:13
You simply write on click equals and then something in between quotes.
1:17
So this is an attribute in the HTML, just like the ID is an attribute as well.
1:23
And inside of here, you write the function that you want to be triggered when the button is clicked.
1:29
So I'm gonna write increment and open and close parenthesis here.
1:34
Now that probably looks really weird for you, and that's totally okay if you're confused by what's going on here, because we've seen nothing of the word increment in our JavaScript yet.
1:43
So rightfully so, we need to create that function.
1:46
I'll do that down here, and I'll use the keyword function, then the name, increment, open and close parenthesis, and then open and close brackets.
1:55
So pretty funky syntax right there, and the first time you type them it feels weird, but over time it becomes second nature.
2:02
What you write inside of these curly brackets is the so called body of the function, and that piece of code that is in the body will be executed every time this function is called or invoked.
2:15
That's the same thing.
2:17
So just to see it in action, I'm going to write console log, button was clicked, like that.
2:24
If we run the code and I click the button, you can see that in the console we see the button was clicked.
2:30
If I do it again, I again, and again, and again, and again, so every single time the button is clicked, this piece of code runs.
2:36
And it runs because we in the HTMLs are saying, hey JavaScript, when this button is clicked on the onClick event, and I want you to run a function called increment.
2:49
And that's what's happening here.
2:51
And then JavaScript is like, yeah, for sure.
2:53
It sits ready and listens for that specific click event, and JavaScript can do that, it pays attention to what the user does on the screen, and when it sees someone clicking on this button, it fires off this piece of code.
3:06
This was probably a lot of information to parse in one go, so before we move on and continue on turning our pseudocode into real JavaScript, let's take a closer look at functions over the next few casts so that you get to write some functions as well and build up your understanding and muscle memory.
